Hey everyone, I'm so glad you're back to
Growth Factor. You're looking at I'm
going to point I think in this
direction, that direction, I don't know.
Zoom always messes me up. But this is
Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed. He's amazing.
You can find him all over the internet,
all over YouTube, and many other apps.
And he's basically here to tell us about
cancer. There's so many myths and a lot
of us worry about it because we have
friends or family that we lost to
cancer. But the reason I do my show, I
want to let you know why I invited the
doctor professor here is that I used to
have anxiety really bad. I had doomed
feelings. It was probably depression.
And if I can just take some of that off
your plate, I'm looking for answers just
like you are. So that's why I have the
professor here. I'm going to tell you a
little bit about him, but then um more
in the interview, I'm going to tell you
more because he has such a huge resume.
But I'm going to tell you first, he's a
professor of biology at Boston College.
He has his PhD in genetics and
biochemistry from the University of
Illinois Urbana Urbana in 1976. He did
his undergrad work in at the University
of England and he recently received a
very distinguished award. It's called
the Alumni Achievement Award. That's so
incredible. He helped so many people.
I'm so glad you're here to listen to
him. He has his master's degree in
genetics from Illinois State University
in Normal, Illinois. And he served in
the US Army First Cavalry. you got a lot
of medals and commendations. So, I just
want to read that to you because there's
so much more to talk about. Can we start
please with the cancer myth, Professor
Dr. Seaff Freed? Oh, thank you very
much, Amalia. It's nice to be here on
your on your program. Um, cancer myths.
Uh, the biggest myth is cancer is is a a
genetic disease. Uh, that's the singular
biggest myth. It's not a genetic
disease. It's a mitochondrial metabolic
disease, which means basically that
cancer originates from damage to an
organel in our cells called the
mitochondria. They often call it the
power plant of the cell because it makes
most of the energy for all the cells in
our body. So when that little organel
gets damaged or dysfunctional it starts
the pro it starts the path to
disregulated cell growth which is the or
which is the definition of cancer. So
the definition of cancer is cell
division out of control disorganized
cell growth and that starts with damage
to the mitochondria in the cell leading
then to downstream genetic mutations. So
the myth is that cancer is caused by
mutations. The truth is that the
mutations are the result of the damage
to the mitochondria. So most of what we
do in the clinics to manage the disease,
most of the research that's being done
throughout the world is probably a waste
of time. Um, and I say that because
we're not making any major progress in
managing cancer. And that's because the
theory of the disease is incorrect. And
once people realize it's a metabolic
mitochondrial problem, then you're going
to see real achievements in reducing the
deaths from cancer. So the greatest myth
cancer is a genetic disease is a myth.
Cancer is a mitochondrial metab
metabolic disease. And that's the truth.
What I appreciate about hearing that is
so many of us feel like my father had
this, my mother had that, my siblings,
my grandparents, so then I'm probably
doomed and I'm afraid I'm going to get
what they got. So, I love hearing that
cancer in particular is not genetic
because that helps a lot of us with our
anxiety and fear and also what you're
saying helps us feel like perhaps we
have a little control of what's going on
instead of just feeling like, "Oh my
gosh, I got this diagnosis and now I got
to trust in the doctors and and I'm
losing control of my body." Yeah. Well,
I think you have to recognize there are
genetic risk factors like you mentioned
the BA1 and P-53. These are risk
factors. They only put you at risk if if
those genes damage the function of the
mitochondria and and no known genetic
risk inherited risk factor is 100%
penetrant. Uh even those who have BA 1
the mutation that affects or breast
cancer. You know about 50 to 60% of
women that would have that mutation
uh are at risk for developing cancer of
the breast but 40% are not. So you don't
you don't uh and you can modify that by
by by uh things you can do to reduce the
risk significantly. So there are genetic
factors that are risk factors, but
they're not the cause of the disease
because if they were the cause, everyone
that would inherit that mutation should
get the disease and that's clearly not
the case. So So yes, you are in charge
of what you can do to reduce your risk.
Even if you were diagnosed and said,
"Oh, I have like an you mentioned an
Angelina Jolie." Well, she went out and
had breasts and ovaries removed. Um, but
if you could also use uh diet and
lifestyle modification to reduce the
risk as well. So, uh um because it's not
a fatal complete that if you have that
mutation, you're going to get the
disease. It can be modified. So, um uh
the only origin of cancer is damage to
the mitochondria. If the dam if the
mitochondrial damage can be avoided, uh
cancer will be avoided.
Oh, you just had me thinking. So, do you
think it's better to cut and chop like
take off our breasts and our ovaries or
take out our prostate or should we maybe
cut and chop food? Is it food that us? I
I don't I I certainly if if if the
mutations uh and besides just because it
it it it might involve like the most the
most the highest prevalence for a
genetic risk factor is the leaf any p-53
mutation where about 80%
of the people with that mutation will
develop some form of cancer. 80 but not
all. So it's not 100%. There's no
mutation that we know of that causes
cancer 100% of the time, which means and
and p-53 is a mutation that affects
mitochondrial function. So clearly that
m that gene damages the organel that's
responsible for the origin of cancer. Um
now you know you can remove organs but
with p-53 but but you could get cancer
in almost any organ. Um so what are you
going to do? I mean you can't go out and
remove all your organs to prevent you
from right. Think about it. It doesn't
make any sense. So, so but you can do
you can try to reduce the risk because
if you can keep your mitochondria
healthy, uh the probability of getting
cancer is is very rare, almost remote.
And how do we know that? Well, we know
that because every known cancer has
damage to the mitochondria. And they
ferment uh they they get their energy
through a through a non uh a me a
mechanism that doesn't involve oxygen.
So they get energy without oxygen and
that's called fermentation.
And um you know our our an our our uh
primitive ancestors are what they call
aboriginals
um never rarely if ever had cancer. The
the great humanitarian Albert Schwitzer
would look at the African populations in
the jungles. They never had cancer. He
never never could find anyone with
cancer. the the investigation of the
Eskimos and Native Americans before u
western civilization came into these the
lives of these people. Cancer was
unheard of. Our closest genetic
relative, the chimp chimpanzeee is is
98% similar to us in genetic uh
background. They rarely if ever there's
never been a documented case of breast
cancer in a chimpanzeee. So what what's
going on with this? Why are why our
native uh u ancestral humans and chimps
and things they don't get cancer? So
what is making all of us so susceptible
to cancer right and it's diet and
lifestyle the western diet and lifestyle
is putting us at risk not only for
cancer type 2 diabetes obesity
cardiovascular disease dementia all of
the major chronic diseases including
cancer are all the result of diet and
lifestyle issues where we're constantly
bombarded with high fructose foods
poorly nutritious foods. We don't
exercise. Uh we're stressed out. Uh
we're doing all these all those kinds of
things put us at risk for damaging the
mitochondria in a population of cells,
putting us at risk for cancer. Okay? So,
the prevention of cancer is keep your
mitochondria healthy. If you keep the
mito how do you do that? Well, you you
you do um restricted food intake
periodically. Eat foods that are very
low in carbohydrates. Don't forget, our
ancestors never had access to Hershey
bars, uh, or they never had a
supermarket full of highly processed
foods. They'd have to go out and kill
what they ate or grow some vegetable
that they could eat. They weren't they
weren't driving up to McDonald's and
having somebody hand them a big happy
meal through the window. They don't even
get out of the car. They don't even use
the exercise to get out of the car to
get the food. I mean, you try compare
that with trying to run down a a big
elephant and kill it and and butcher it.
I mean, there's a lot of energy that
goes into that. And there's no sweet
involved with that, right? So think
about those people never had cancer.
They say, "Oh, they didn't live long
enough." Believe me, they did. There
were some people that lived quite a long
time and they never So we already have
documented well documented from a
variety of different ways. Oh, they say
these people never, our ancestors
didn't, you know, when the Eskimos, they
they didn't go to doctors. That's not
true. They love to go to doctors. This
is reported by by Robert Lufkin and some
others. um or not Robert but uh um Sam
Apple and and and so we have plenty of
evidence that cancer is a disease of
civilization. We ourselves our diets and
lifestyles are putting us at risk and
and so the way you can get away from
this is is try to adopt a diet lifestyle
issue that reduces risk factors.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at school.com/
keto for cancer,
right? Smoking, smoking was a terrible
risk factor for cancer. Now our society
has come to realize that uh we stopped
smoking for the large part from many
people and cancer rates went down
tremendously. Okay. But right now every
day we have over 1,600 people a day
dying from cancer in the United States
documented by the American Cancer
Society. Every year they come out with
their numbers. You know how many new
cases we have and how many people are
dying from cancer. And you'll see the
numbers are quite sobering. What is
going on with 1,00 over almost now 1,700
people a day are dying from cancer. Um,
and it doesn't go down. It goes up. And
people say, "Whoa, well, it's going it
is it's increasing at the same rate as
the population is increasing. But
there's no drop. We're not getting we're
not dropping death rates from cancer.
All those drugs you hear about
advertised on on television, the
Katruda, the Opivo, chance to live
longer, you know, do this and do that,
it's all It's all ba it's all
based on the somatic the gene theory of
cancer. If cancer is not a gene, if it's
not a genetic disease, all that stuff is
is down. It's not it's never going to
reduce significantly the death rate
because the theory based on the
treatments is is incorrect. It's a
metabolic disease and we can take charge
of that. We actually can we we have the
capability of modifying our risk for
cancer, type two diabetes, heart
disease, all of these things. I mean, we
have an obesity epidemic, right?
Everybody knows this. They don't want to
talk about it. Obesity is now is
replacing smoking as the number one risk
factor for cancer. I mean, we have
control of that. I mean it's not easy
but you can control it. All the risk
factors most of the risk factors for
cancer are now controllable when you
understand that it's a metabolic disease
and not a genetic disease because people
who think it's a genetic disease say oh
it's my bad luck. That's incorrect. It's
incorrect. The mutations are all
downstream effects. They're not the
cause. So we're focusing the almost the
entire cancer industry is focusing on
downstream epiphenomena not the real
problem. So uh in a nutshell that's
that's what it is. We published a lot of
papers on this. The problem is it's a
message that few people want to hear.
Certainly the pharmaceutical companies
don't want to hear it. Certainly the
academic cancer industry does not want
to hear it. And also the p the people
the population of people in our society
are not really excited to hear about it.
They'll take they'll roll the dice and
say, "Oh, no. I I I like to eat the way
I am and I'm like to do what I like to
do. I'm very comfortable." And I'll roll
the dice and maybe I won't get cancer.
So, um, but they can take charge of it
once you know how to manage it. So, and
where it's origin, if you know how it
starts, you know how to manage it. So,
it's not an insurmountable problem. It's
just that you know, we have people in
the society that may not know this.
So many questions. So many questions. So
my first one is you just mentioned
number of people dying of cancer. How
many are actually dying of cancer or the
treatment? And there's a reason I'm
asking it. It's regarding my father.
Yeah. No, that's an extremely important
question and um it's it's a very
interesting kind of question because I
think a significant number of people
treated are dying from the treatments.
And um
let me give you uh a couple of of
examples. Well, first of all, you know
that that you know if you're exposed to
toxic poisons and radiation that's not
healthy. Uh that for some people who are
on the cusp of ill health, uh that can
push him over. Also, you also see many
times they'll say he died from the
complications of cancer. Uh which is
often he died from the treatment. Um,
now in the Wall Street Journal, and I
share this with my my my students, I
tell my students in the cancer class and
in my general biology, you get a lot of
information on cancer from the Wall
Street Journal. So, um, for a variety of
reasons, most of it's a new drug that's
going to come out and see how much
profit you can make on this new drug,
uh, which is based on the gene theory,
which is obviously not going to help
many people in the first place. Um, but
Paul Allen of Microsoft fame um died uh
at Fred Hutch, I believe it was in
Seattle. And the Wall Street Journal
said the doctors were very optimistic
about his prognosis and within a couple
of weeks he was dead and um he died from
the complications of whatever they
treated him with. And he's one of the
wealthiest guys in the world. And then
um Blake Nordstrom of the department
store uh chain Nordstrom's department
store. He had some sort of a lymphoma
according to the Wall Street Journal.
The doctors were very optimistic and
within two weeks of his treatment he was
dead. You know, you don't die from
cancer and lymphas in two weeks. Right?
So, so what happens is the people that
are rich and have a lot of money go off
to their medical schools to get the
latest treatments. Okay? Uh the poor
people can't afford all that stuff. So
they have a better chance of survival
than the rich. They go off and they get
all these special imunotherapies and all
this kind of nonsense and and and the
next thing you know uh they they do
really well at the beginning. As a
matter of fact, it looks like whoa
miraculous. It's miraculous. As a matter
of fact, it was shown big paper
published that many of these drugs they
make the tumor look like it goes away
but you only live two extra months, 2.4
extra months. Can you believe this? I
mean, we are so given so much
misinformation
by allowing drug companies to pedal
their their drugs on TV every night,
giving the false impression to the
population that things are really hunky
dory. And and if you have a a cancer, we
know how to treat your special cancer.
We have the tools. Are you kidding me?
We got 1,600 people a day dying. And and
yes, we have a lot of survivors. People
say, "Oh, it must be worried. a lot of
survivors, right? But a lot of those
cancer survivors pay a s a terrible
price for their survival. I mean,
they're mu surgically mutilated. They're
burned. They're poisoned. I mean, a lot
of times they have all kinds of other
maladies associated with the treatments
that they were given. Oh yeah, I
survived my cancer. You know, it was
really tough battle all this stuff. But
now you have digestive issues, hormonal
issues, neuroscsychiatric problems. you
got all kinds of problems for surviving
your that's nons you shouldn't have all
that that's nuts what are they doing so
um and the answer is if cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disease we can
drop the death rate by 50% in 10 years
and we can bring people's health back
not only will you yes of course this is
uh clear um but oh you it's impossible
of course it's impossible if the theory
that you're treating the patients with
is incorrect that yes it is impossible
But if the theory changes to a metabolic
disease, yeah, very possible. The
problem is no one has yet figured out a
business model to make money on it. And
until that happens, we must then be
sacrificed uh by the system uh because
we can't make money, enough money.
Revenue generation is the number one
aspect of cancer. You got to generate
revenue. Now, if I have a drug that can
generate revenue and and manage your
cancer without toxicity, everybody will
love it. But we don't have that. But we
can manage your cancer without toxicity.
The problem is we don't have re we can't
generate revenue on it. So these are the
these are the these are the problems.
And until the society steps back and
says, "Yeah, we got to do something."
It's going to be status quo. There's not
going to be anything that's going to
happen. So they're all going to run off
to their Dana Farbers, MD Andersons,
Sloan Ketarings, Fred Hutch, whatever
they go, wherever they go. Um MD
Andersons, right? They they run in
there. They get all the different kinds
of treatments and they do good for a
while and then you hear well there's
nothing more we can do. Give me a break,
you know. I mean it's just it's just
tragic. It is the greatest tragedy in
the history of medicine, this cancer
thing. And um but you know until we have
to keep publishing the papers, we have
to keep documenting all the case reports
that we're showing. Oh, they say we
don't have enough. I won't believe it
unless I see a big case report. And then
after you do a case report, they still
won't believe it. So it's not has
nothing to do the outcome is why don't
you look at all the case reports and how
well they're doing and say well that's a
fluke he's a fluke that's a fluke this
is a fluke well one of these days the
patients are going to say I want to be
one of those flukes so uh the system has
to change if the system doesn't change
then it's going to be business as usual
suffering dying and all this other stuff
that's associated with the disease and
you know it's a tragedy people fear
cancer soon as they get the word I'm
diagnosed with cancer they impending
doom and death it doesn't have to be
that way. It doesn't have to be that
way. Yet, it is because they fear the
treatment as much as they do the
disease. And what why? Oh, I'm going to
lose my breasts. I'm going to lose my my
my prostate gland. I'm going to take my
kidney out, take my lung out. They're
going to poison and irdiate me. Who the
hell wants that? Oh, I got to do that if
I want to survive, right? But you don't
have I can get we can survive you
survive without having to do all that.
Oh, I don't believe. Oh, okay. You don't
believe I published all these papers.
What part of it you don't believe? Oh, I
never knew that. Oh, people say I I
never saw that paper. Well, you don't
read the damn literature. You know, if
you read the literature, you'd be
saying, "Oh, and you can't believe how
many people say sugar has nothing to do
with cancer." Now, sugar doesn't cause
cancer. It's not a carcinogen. But if
you have cancer and your blood sugar is
high, you die faster. The tumor grows
faster. It's clear. Hundreds of papers
published. And then you go to an
oncologist and sugar has nothing to do
with cancer. What are you kidding me?
These guys don't read the scientific
literature. So, I don't know what to
say. I mean, what can you say? I'm on
here talking on your show. I'm telling
you and whoever is listening, right?
This is the way it is. They don't
believe me. I'll show then read my
papers and see what you think. Right? If
you say, "I don't believe it." Well,
hey, listen. There's a lot of people who
who actually believe stuff that that is
is is incomprehensible that anybody
could believe some of these things. But,
but you know, what are you going to say?
But anyway, you can always look at my
papers and read the information and see
it if you don't believe what I'm saying.
We're going to go over your papers in a
moment and I'm also going to ask you in
a moment about Steve Jobs and pancreatic
cancers because I'd really like to go
over the most dangerous cancers but I'm
tell a story real quick. The reason I
asked you because I have experience in
this how many are dying of cancer or the
treatment. So when my dad got COVID our
whole family except for me and one son I
guess because we're O blood I don't know
got the COVID in June of 2020. Now my
dad at the time he's 80 now totally fine
for who he is. He was 78, OB, sedentary,
uh, prostate cancer, aphib, high blood
pressure. I would, it used to say high
cholesterol, but now we know it's a
myth, and I'll talk to you about that in
a moment. So, my dad was at the hospital
because his auction was 88. So, god
forbid he was dying of COVID. And what
did I do? I said, "Mom, I don't know how
this hospital treats it. I know Dr. um
Thomas Yatagar at Tarzana Hospital in
California, Cedar Providence. He knows
what he's doing. He's saving tons of
lives." We pull him out. My mom signs an
AMA paper against medical advice. They
warned us it might not be covered by
insurance. We said we don't care. Take
him to Tarzana. He was there five days.
The doctor said basically, I'm not going
to say who, a doctor who I spoke with
said, you know, your dad was dying. I
know the way this disease goes. They're
treating him for pneumonia at that
hospital. Here we treat for cytoine
storm and I think a lot of what you're
talking about probably we can talk about
cytoine storm. So that's why I asked
you. A lot of people ran and did certain
certain things to their body because
they were so fearful. And I feel
blessed. I didn't have to run and do
anything. I said, "You know what? I
think if we go to the right doctor and
we have the right hospital, we probably
have a chance with COVID." But what I
noticed and and what I noticed is not
only was it obese people and I talked to
two lung specialists dealing with COVID,
it was alcoholics, it was anyone
inflamed, it was people currently going
through cancer treatment, it was people
who I noticed bodybuilders, Professor
Dr. See freed it was bodybuilders it was
long-distance runners anyone who was
overly doing it like too fat exercising
too much they probably had cytoine storm
so we'll talk about cytoine storm I'll
get back to my other questions you do
you talk about cytoine storm at all well
cytoine storm is um uh it's it's in in
the case of cancer it would be tumorly
lis syndrome and some people die uh when
they get when they get an imunotherapy
uh it it can sometimes kill so many
cancer cells together at the same time
they release a massive amount of uh it's
a cytoine storm basically and they die
they die quickly from that. So um you
know our approach is to grade the tumor
slowly over time using the press pulse
metabolic therapy. So we completely
avoid any cytoine storm or light tumoris
syndrome. But but you're but you're uh
you're correct in defining that many of
the people that did suffer and die from
COVID most of them had some sort of
comorbidity
uh with w with their condition whether
they were older or even younger people
that are imunompromised or or um obese
or there was a whole slug of things that
would be put you at risk. And again,
where did all those people develop the
risk for being killed by COVID? The diet
and lifestyle issue. It comes right back
to the fact that if you're young and
healthy and and in and in not overly
great shape like you mentioned with some
of these some of these people um the
probability of dying from COVID was much
less than people that had all these
co-orbidities and most of those
comorbidities have come from ch diet and
lifestyle issues and those many of the
coorbidities also put people at risk for
cardiovascular cancer and high blood
pressure hypertension all these other
kinds of things as well. So everything
comes back to metabolic homeostasis
within the body. And uh if you're me if
you have metabolic homeostasis, you're
you're more likely to survive a variety
of different assaults on the body. So
again, we're going to get back to the
dangerous cancers and Steve Jobs in a
moment because I don't I don't want to
leave that question hanging. But I think
a question people are going to say right
now, but Professor Dr. Seaff Freed, what
about the two-year-old child? What about
the teen? And I'll I'll ask a question.
I'll I'll give um from my friend. She
said, "I lost a 16-year-old daughter 7
years ago to small round cell
desmoplastic saroma, a very rare cancer.
She was diagnosed at 14. What could have
been wrong with her metabolically to
have caused this? What could we have
done differently?" Yeah. Well, you know,
the h how how that initial uh uh
disruption of the mitochondria happens
can sometimes be easily determined and
sometimes less easily determined. So for
a 14-year-old girl to have a
mitochondrial abnormality in a
population of of cells that that
ultimately grew out of control is is not
clear uh in that in that case. In other
words, what she what could that young
lady have done to prevent herself from
getting that cancer? Again, at 14 years
old and most of the young people, they
don't they don't really think about
themselves getting cancer, nor do the p
the parents of those kids. the the issue
is is what could have been done to help
her survive in a more uh uh a less toxic
way. Now, metabolic therapy that I speak
about, we don't call that a cure for
cancer. We call it a logical management
of the disease. If you happen to survive
very long periods of time, like into
your 80s and 90s and happen to die from
a stroke, then you can possibly say that
metabolic therapy that was treating my
cancer when I was 14 or 20 or whatever
was probably because obviously the guy
died from something else in his 90s. So,
you don't know. People say, "Oh, I as a
don't think of a cure for cancer." What
you think of is is a logical management
of cancer. So, so um that's what we
think of when when we say oh h how do
you we don't cure we we manage can you
manage the disease without creating
toxicity so the 14year-old girl I can't
tell you how she might have gotten the
origin of that but we would certainly
have a logical strategy for managing it
whether whether she could have been
killed or not she probably would not
have died in such a rapid
um or or in a in a in in a in a in a
difficult way. So, so we're working on
all that and once we we already we
already have the blueprint plan. I I'm
I'm sure we can keep most of these
cancer patients alive far longer with a
higher quality of life and overall
survival. Whether they're or not, I
don't know. We've only been doing this
for a while. Um I mean, we've got eight,
nine, 10 year survivors, but but you
know, are they? Who knows? I mean, if
they die from old age from something
else, then yeah, they would Who's gonna
I won't be around to see those people?
They might live longer than me. So, what
am I going to say?
You know, you were talking about rich
people getting the best treatment, yet
sometimes it kills them faster. So, I
was thinking about Steve Jobs. You
encapsulated that pretty clearly, didn't
you?
I'm sorry we're laughing. That's a
terrible thing to say, right? It's
terrible. But that's what scares us the
most. This is the boogeyman. That's why
I have you on the show to help people
from the anxiety and stress thinking the
boogeyman's going to come to get me. If
someone like a Steve Jobs gets a
pancreatic cancer and he can't live,
then surely I'm not going to live. So,
can you talk to us either about
pancreatic cancers or just the most
dangerous cancers in general that seem
to have no cure? Yeah. Well, when it
when when you cure, well, you know,
surgic if you can catch a cancer early
like the size of a wart and surgically
debulk it, you're probably so uh it's
when they metastasize and start to
spread to other tissues and and and
around the environment which then
becomes a little bit a much greater
challenge. Um, but Steve Jobs, I I he
had pancreatic cancer. He lived quite a
long I I I don't know what kind of CA
pancreatic cancer he might have had but
I I know he he said he was doing some um
dietary stuff. Uh but for those who have
pancreatic cancer, glyobblastoma in the
brain, uh non small cell lung cancer,
all these kinds of cancers, the it
metastasizes quickly and spreads around
the the body. But what we know is that
they are all similar. Uh I did a big
study on this. I compared the underlying
problem in all of the major cancers that
we know of which includes about 99% of
all major cancers pancreatic,
glyopblastoma, lung, all these different
cancers, bladder, colon, breast, they
all they all generate energy by um using
without oxygen which is called
fermentation. And then once you
understand that energy can be generated
by breathing air or by these cells get
energy without breathing. So they live
in hypoxic non non oxygen environments.
But in order to live in that environment
they have to f you call fermentation.
It's an ancient pathway of energy before
oxygen came into the atmosphere two 2.5
billion years ago. So the cancer cell is
doing nothing more than falling back on
an ancient pathway of energy metabolism
depending on um two fuels glucose to
sugar and the amino acid glutamine. So
if you pull the plug on those two fuels
you can manage the majority of cancers
as long as you transition the body over
to ketone bodies which are fat break
water soluble fat breakdown products. So
this the solution to the cancer problem
is not that complicated. You just take
these people, you deprive the tumors of
their very ne necessary fuels and trans
while transitioning the body over to
fuels that cannot be fermented. So it's
it's actually embarrassingly
uncomplicated.
Uh but when you look at cancer from the
perspective of a genetic disease, it's
hopelessly complicated. So um once you
understand the metabolism of what's
driving the growth of the tumor, whether
it's a pancreatic tumor, a
glyopblastoma, a bladder cancer, l any
of them, they all ferment. So the the
plan to eliminate them or manage them
becomes much more clear and less far
less toxic. So that's the strategy. our
case reports that we're writing over and
over again on individuals
uh demonstrate that people that should
be dead are alive. There's a movie that
will be coming out uh called The Cancer
Revolution. It's I think they're going
to the um
one of those uh documentary film film
fests I think in uh somewhere in Utah
with where they have those doc those
film documentaries. Anyway, um in there
they've interviewed uh many long-term
survivors of the most deadly cancers
that have used metabolic therapy to
manage their disease. And everybody
writes them off as flukes or anecdotal
and things like this. But it's only a
matter of time before more and more and
more of these kinds of cases start
appearing everywhere. And the people who
survive start telling everybody, you
know, how wonderful I'm doing and all
this. And then people will say, I want
to be one of those flukes. I want to be
one of those anecdotes. And then the the
the the oncologists at the hospital say
we don't do that. Um we don't treat you
like that. In fact, they get angry and
they they they want you to do their
standard of care. So So this system is
going to has to change. How many people
uh
want to continue with what we're doing?
How many people are are satisfied with
the progress that we have made in
managing cancer when we have over 1,600
people a day dying from the disease? How
many people are happy with the fact that
they're that they have to subject
themselves to surgical mutilation,
radiation, and poisons? I I don't think
there's a lot of people that feel good
about that. Nobody gets into a happy
state when they get diagnosed with
cancer. So, I I'm not saying that with
metabolic therapy all that you're going
to be, oh wow, I have cancer now. Now,
maybe I can get rid of my high high
blood pressure, diabetes along with the
cancer. So, and that's what we're seeing
a number of people that come in to do
metabolic therapy for cancer uh have
diabetes and high blood pressure and all
these other things and they all go away
with the tumor. So, um Guy Tanbomb, you
should you should interview this this
gentleman advanced prostate cancer. He
had nine months to live. They said he's
out now three years and he's doing uh
remarkably well. He lost uh 110 pounds.
He got rid of his high blood pressure,
his type two diabetes, hypertension, got
rid of it all. And his prostate cancer
and and um people say, "Oh, I want to do
what guy does." Well, Guy Guy did water
only fasting for like 10 or 12 days at a
time uh with intermittent um keto and
and so well, okay, I I don't want to do
what guy's doing. Okay, then take the
chemo and radiation, get your prostate
pulled out. I mean, these are the
choices, right? So um but you know more
and more people are going to say and he
he's on the web telling everybody how
healthy he is. He feels great. He's
wonderful. Never felt better in his
life. You know it's like so um so it's a
it's a metabolic therapy which can
manage not only cancer but a lot of the
a lot of the conditions that put the
body at risk for developing a neoplasure
or or or a tumor in the first place. So
um but you know people say oh if that's
so true how come everybody doesn't want
to do this? How come everybody doesn't
know about it? And the answer is you
take you you ask how many people would
really bite the bite the bullet in
compliance and say oh I got to eat I got
to eat a diet now that has zero
carbohydrates and I do I test it with my
students myself and stuff I mean it's
great for the first week or two and
after a while you go wow I man this is
really tough or water only fasting you
have to change your mindset the mind the
mind body relationship has to begin to
change the motivation is you want to
stay alive the goal is how long can I
stay alive with a a diagnos nosis of
cancer. Um, how can I can I manage my
own disease with the help of
knowledgeable professionals who can
guide me through the gauntlet of what I
need to do to maintain
control of the growth of these cells and
I want to degrade them uh slowly over
time and that's what that's metabolic
therapy. So ketogenic metabolic therapy
will be eventually the solution to the
cancer problem, but it's going to take a
while for the for the system to
recognize that and change. It's going to
happen unless people are very happy with
the way things the status quo. Um, and
if they are, then take the radiation and
chemo and imunotherapies and all that
other stuff. You know, I would never do
that, but maybe somebody else would do
that. I don't know.
My friend Dovey actually sent me some
videos on from Guy Tennibal and what I
saw is he at some point in his cancer.
He did a 45day water fast. So he had to
add vitamins or some certain food. I
think he did 35 days of something. No.
Yeah. Yeah. No, it wasn't 45 days. I
think he he when he came into my office
here, he was he was on an 18-day water
only fast. You don't go out you don't go
out and do that. Uh, that's like saying,
"Oh, I want to run a marathon. Uh, let
let me run let me Did you practice at
all?" "No, no, I'm I'm I, you know, I I
I weigh 300 pounds. I want to do a 26
mile run." How you think that's going to
go? Not well. Right. So, a guy Tannob
did small fasts at the beginning. He
built his body up into a tolerance
routine. And uh and he was eating he he
then would start to eat uh the kinds of
foods that would be extremely low
glycemic, highly nutritious kinds of
foods. Um and he balanced his his uh his
body. So um but he he is a survivor uh
long-term survivor who uh got rid of a
lot of other conditions that he had. But
he's not alone. I mean we have many
people that are are are doing this. Um,
you know, you just have to know, we
developed the glucose ketone index
calculator to allow cancer patients to
know whether in the therapeutic whether
they're in this therapeutic zone and and
then once they get into that therapeutic
zone, then we give them certain lowdose
drugs that work together uh with this
new metabolic state to to to precision
kill tumor cells. Our metabolic therapy
is the real precision medicine. What it
does is it enhances the health and
vitality of your normal cells while
killing tumor cells without toxicity.
That's precision medicine, not this
imunotherapy crap and all these other
crazy things you hear. They're all based
on a flaw of a flawed theory. When the
theory is wrong, those things are not
going to be just they will help some
people, but they're not going to help
the majority of people that have all
these different kinds of cancers.
Metabolic therapy will be able to manage
cancer in the majority of people. Okay?
But they need to know what to do and how
to do it. They need to have
professionals that will guide them uh
consult them and show them what they
should do and what they should not do.
It should be a feed forward feedback
between the patient and and the
caregiver. The problem is we have very
few physicians that understand anything
about what I just said. They're clueless
as to recognize the biology of the
disease they're treating. They don't
know cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
disease. How could you treat somebody
for a disease when you have no clue as
to the biology of the disease you're
treating? So, there has to be a real
educational there has to be trained
people that understand cancer is a
metabolic disease. How are we going to
help all these people use uh and you
have to get people that buy on to this.
They you have to have people that are
motivated to want to do this. Listen,
there are some people no matter what you
say, they can't give up food for for
five hours, right? Okay. We have
radiation and chemo for you. Okay, we
we're not going to take that away for
those people that lack willpower and
self-discipline. We definitely have the
radiation chemoimunotherapies. We'll be
more than happy to treat you that way.
But for those people that want to take
charge of their own soul and existence,
we have another alternative approach
that you might want to consider once you
become educated enough and work with an
individual that understands the
concepts. Makes sense, right? Right. I
mean, what's this? Doesn't make sense to
people. I don't know. I mean, we we we
consider it the the the new the new way
to view cancer. So, we don't ever want
to stop somebody from taking radiation
or chemo. I mean, if that's what they
desire, we think that should always be
available for that for that. So, we
don't want to say, "Oh, people should
never be irdiated or treated with toxic
poisons to kill their tumor." You know,
if that's part of the standard of care,
you know, uh some people say, you know,
I I I think I need radiation and I I
think I need a lot of chemo. Okay. Okay.
Well, it'll be there for you. But for
those people who don't want it, why
don't we tell right now the system does
not allow people to to recognize that
there is another way to manage cancer
that is non-toxic, but it requires a lot
of personal discipline and you you know
if the person well I don't have any
personal discipline great then you do
the standard of care. So but the
alternative should be there and it
should be uh uh people should know about
it at least they have the option. I'm
not saying people should do metabolic
therapy anymore than I should say they
should do the standard of care whatever
they think they should in their
particular lifestyle and the way they
view it. They should have the choice or
at least they should know about it and
weigh compare and contrast uh what what
should be done for managing their
particular condition. So right now they
get no choice. It's e it's either this
this way or the highway standard of care
or the highway. You know you you don't
really have any other any other options.
And when you ask most oncologists is
there another way? No, no, this is the
way it is. So, uh, and that's wrong.
They there should be options to they
should be given options, too.
What I appreciate most about all of the
lectures and everything I've read that
you've written and all your thoughts is
that once we get a scary diagnosis,
especially cancer, we feel like friends
throw things at us, doctors throw things
at us, neighbors, everyone's giving us
their opinion, and we don't know where
to go. Who do I trust? What do I do? So,
what's interesting, I'm going to relate
this to what just happened to my dad. So
my dad has CO right now for the second
time. He's 80 now. And he went to the
hospital. They said, "You're COVID
positive." And they gave him a pill by
Mercer called Levero, something like
that. So I look, it says released by
emergency use, experimental,
and it says not FDA approved. So I said,
"Dad, hey, let's let's read the product
insert. What are the long-term side
effects? What are the short-term side
effects? We don't know." So it's a very
similar thing with cancer. We get a lot
thrown at us. Do we do we do we even
look at the the product insert to know
what we're putting in our body, the
injection, the radiation, the pill, the
the treatment. So, I appreciate that. It
sounds like you're teaching us we have a
little more control than we think. Yeah,
we we do. But the pro you you raised an
extremely important point because there
are a lot of medications
um that can target the energy metabolism
of the cancer cells with minimal side
effects like embendol and fenbendazol.
these parasite medications
um which are really cheap uh and they're
very effective and very non-toxic
um and uh but again you have to know how
to use this and there's many drugs that
are not FDA approved that could have be
extremely powerful when used under
nutritional ketosis uh we've tested them
the drug six deoxyor leucine
uh which is d o and Don, I've spoken
about this. We used it here in the
clinic or in our pre-clinical models and
they we got really really good results.
It's a glutamine targeting drug. Um, and
it really works well, but it's again it
was used on children with cancer, people
with cancer in the past, and they said,
"Oh, it was too toxic. Didn't work."
Well, you gave it at too high of a
concentration. You didn't know how to
use it, and you weren't targeting the
glucose at the same time you were
targeting the glutamine. So it's you're
not going to get the complete effect
efficacious
be uh control if you don't know how to
use the drug that you're working with
again. But now it's not for human use.
All I can say is if I were diagnosed
with cancer, I would be get myself into
nutritional ketosis as fast as possible.
I would buy Don. I I I would get it from
a a company. I know where to get it and
people can get. Their problem is they
won't sell it to you, but I can get it.
Uh well, how can I get it? Well, I can
get it in different ways. Um, I've
tested drugs from China. I've tested
them to make sure the ones because, you
know, some of that stuff may not be
good. I test the ones that are good. So,
um, yeah, and I would have one of my
friends deliver it to me. IV, right? And
I would take all the things that I've
been working and I see all my clinical
stuff. The problem is people can't like
your your viewers, they wouldn't be able
to do that. But I know people who have
enough some people have a lot of money.
So, I want to do that. Oh, say, "Okay,
you can buy the drug and then you just
got to find a clinician that will sign
off and say, "Okay, what are you worried
about? You think Donna is going to be as
toxic as some of those imunotherapies
that are killing people?" I mean, you
got to put things into perspective.
People say, "Oh, the ketogenic diet has
a lot of adverse effects." Like, what?
Like, compared to radiation? Are you
kidding me?
I got to stop eating carbs. It's going
to be worse than than me taking a toxic
poison.
I mean, this is nuts, right? So it's the
mindset of the people. So uh um but yeah
no no we have there's a plan. We wrote
the press pulse concept. It was a a
strategy. You have that paper there um
with my physician colleagues and uh um
yeah this stuff will work man. It's just
got you just got to educate people and
um and and the physicians. You have to
educate the the the the physicians and
the patients together and then you start
to see big big changes. um you can get
my papers and read them. So press pulse
was a strategy by which we use a diet to
stress the tumor cells and then very low
doses of drugs um pulsed to kill off the
survivors. So it's a it's a logical
strategy for gradually degrading the
tumor population while enhancing the
health and vitality of the normal body.
So, uh, it's not to be viewed as a, uh,
a bull in a china shop like, "Let's
eradate this poor guy until or this
organ until it's like incinerated." Uh,
why are you doing that? Well, I want to
get rid of the cancer cells. But why
don't you just slowly degrade them by
starving them to death of the energy
that they need using a press pulse
metabolic therapy? Well, I didn't know
anything about that. Well, why don't you
read the paper and then discuss it with
your oncologist? So, the patient comes
in, he says, "Oh, wow. I discussed it my
with my oncologist." And the
myoncologist said we don't do that. So
now what? So the poor patient is always
left in this limbo doesn't know what he
should do, he or she should do. Yet the
the strategy is there, but the very
professional that's supposed to help him
go go through this doesn't understand
the concept. So you have all of these
issues that are uh standing in the way
of having a very logical non-toxic way
to manage almost everyone's cancer. most
of the people we we should be able to
manage our our our cancers in a very
logical strategy using press pulse
metabolic therapy uh which we which we
published so it was a skeleton outline
we're working on a big paper right now
which is really a protocol for treating
the patients with metabolic therapy so
I'll I'll have a lot of my physician
colleagues with me working with me on
that paper so that we can again put it
out into open access have the ca the
cancer patient wave this paper in front
of their oncologist and say please do
this for me. It's clearly outlined what
you need to do, doses, timing, and
scheduling. Please do this for me. And
what they do is chase you out of the
office. They don't they they're trained
to do only only the standard of care and
they're not trained. And then you get
these other guys who Oh, yeah. Who who
who say, well, we're going to give you a
whole bunch of uh supplements and all
this crazy stuff like snake oils and all
this nutty stuff, but Oh, yeah. Yeah.
We're not going to we're not going to
use toxic poisons, but we're going to
give a whole bunch of supplements. Like
what? How is that going to target
glucose and glutamine? How is that going
to put you in a state of therapeutic?
So, so you gota the po and you are 100%
where the poor cancer patient goes. He
gets all this misinformation, right? He
goes to the top medical school gets
misinformation. He goes to some
alternative guy and gets misinformation.
So, so the poor guy is like you said, he
said, she said, "Oh, do this, do that,
don't do this, don't eat that, don't eat
that." And it's all it's like so
confusing for the cancer patient. We we
know exactly pretty much what you need
to do. We publish the papers but we
can't find it won't be adapted by the
medical establishment. So again we have
the same to some extent the same kind of
problem. You know we can't get the word
out to the people or the me methods for
doing that. Anyway
you know it's a struggle but um
eventually in some point in the future
it will happen. So, uh, it just takes
time. You just have to to to to hope
that it happens sooner than later. Do
you see your book? I pulled it up. Can
you not see the screen? So, I I remember
last time you had to you had to press
oncology, but I that's that's our I
think it's our most recent paper, but
it's not the one that depressed pulse
metabolic therapy. Don't worry. I mean,
the the people people can get all of our
stuff on open access. So, uh, there's
interesting one paper I published
recently though on on prostate cancer.
um uh in nature urology. So nature is
like one of the top uh scientific
journals. Uh the problem with that paper
is that you have to have a subscription
to nature to get the paper. So most
people are never going to see it. Um oh
published in a very prestigious journal,
but nobody can read it. So what good
what good is it? It's not as it's not as
important as the open access papers. So
yeah, you you can you can see all that.
Yeah, I I see the frontiers thing here,
but that's our new paper in uh in brain
cancer. Okay. What about do you see the
one with uh managing breast cancer,
ketogenic metabolic therapy? I don't see
it on my screen, but strange. Okay. Can
you tell us about that? It's it's in
Frontiers articles. It says
consideration of ketogenic metabolic
therapy as a complimentary or
alternative approach to managing breast
cancer. Yeah. Well, I mean all you can
say I could I could have put substituted
that with lung cancer, pancreatic
cancer, colon cancer, bladder cancer,
you know, lung cancer. um because
they'll all respond in a similar way. Uh
someone reached out to me in the breast
cancer field and I have a lot of f
physician friends who working on breast
cancer and some of the results on some
on on some of these women are
unbelievable. Um you know people with
advanced metastatic breast cancer that
that goes to the lungs and the brain.
You know, when you have your metastatic
cells leaving the primary site of the
tumor and then spreading to other organs
like the liver and the lung and the
brain, that's pretty much uh lights out.
But um we use metabolic my colleagues
use metabolic therapy and we're able to
keep these people alive so much longer
in a much higher and then what we what
we need to do is and they go through a
lot of them go through standard of care
and so beat up it's just unbelievable
you know they're they're emaciated and
all this and then we still sometimes can
rescue we can't rescue some people some
people are so badly damaged from the
toxic treatments that their normal cells
can no longer rally and uh because don't
forget metabolic therapy relies on our
normal cells as com direct competitors
with the tumor cells. So um if you keep
your normal cells healthy and strong,
they'll out compete the tumor cells
which will be are much weaker because of
all the problems they have genetically
and metabolically. So it's a it's a
struggle. The normal cells struggle
against the tumor cells, but you got to
keep the normal cells healthy and you
got to keep the pressure on the tumor
cells and gradually degrade them. They
gradually start dying off as your body
starts getting healthier. The tumor
cells gradually because you're using
diet drug cocktails. The tumor cells
cannot survive under those diet drug
cocktails. You're you're taking away the
two fuels needed for their growth and
survival, the glucose and the glutamine.
And once you do that while keeping the
rest of the body healthy, these damn
tumor cells up and die on you. Now
people say, "Whoa, wow. How can you do
that? I publish these papers. Why don't
you look at the data and tell me what
tell me what you think?
You know, I love it. I'm going to pull
up another one of your papers. How about
metabolic management of micro
environment acidity and glyobblasto?
Well, that's our newest paper. Um,
that's just goes to show that, you know,
why is it so hard to manage glyopblasto?
Now, don't forget glyobblasto is pretty
much a death sentence for most people
that have it, right? Uh, John McCain
passed away of glyopblasto.
President Biden's son, Bo Biden, died of
glyopblasto, right? Uhuh. Edward
Kennedy, Massachusetts Senator Edward
Kennedy. I mean, these are high-profile
folks. Um, and if there were a solution
to those to the problem, don't you think
those guys would have been ones to get
it? Uh, but they're all dead from it.
But, you go into highdosese radiation
and chemo and all this crazy stuff and
it creates an acidic micro environment
that that actually allows the tumor
cells to survive even better. So as soon
as that first they they survive that
first radiation blast, it's like the
worst thing you can do to a brain cancer
patient is irdiate them. The and yet
they do it over and over again. And I
tell them I told them you're
contributing to the demise of the
patient by doing that. And you think
that would have echoed with somebody's
ear? No. No. Got to keep doing that. And
I pointed oh I never heard of that. I
didn't know radiation could make the
tumor grow faster because you don't read
the damn literature. we published all
these papers showing that the t the
radiation frees up the two fuels that
the tumor cell absolutely needs to to
grow and and uh and you guys making it
worse and they say well we would we
didn't hear about that we didn't have
that in medical school well I said whose
problem is that you know that's your
problem not mine I published the papers
to show you how this is all working and
all your patients are dying right why
don't you look at the survival you know
15 months if you can make 15 months with
a glyopblastoma you're doing really well
you know and yet they they do it over
and over again expecting a different
result. What did Einstein call that? He
called it insanity. Doing the same thing
over and over again expecting a
different result. What is the field? We
have not made a single advance in
glyobblasto in 100 years. Think about
this. We have the web telescope orbiting
a million miles from Earth looking at
the origin of the solar system and we
still have no advance in the
glyopblastoma field. Can you believe
this? Why? Because the theory under
which they're treating the patients is
incorrect. You're never going to get any
advance if you keep doing the same
stupid thing over and over again. Are
you passionate about the groundbreaking
and heroic research of Dr. Thomas
Ciphford on metabolic therapy and
cancer? So are we. That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rocker, a
German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paperbook via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereaded's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker has already made at
www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just investing in your own
knowledge, you're also contributing to
the future of cancer research. help us
make a difference. Together, we can
drive change and save lives.
You know, it just it's just like nuts.
You know, after a while, I say to
myself, maybe I'm going insane. That the
uh you know, you can see the clear it's
so clear if you understand what's going
on. And yet, it's you I don't know what
you have to do to these to to change the
system. But, um but I'm telling you what
you need to do. I'm telling you how you
do it. I'm giving the hard scientific
evidence to support what I'm saying in
all the publications that we want that
we do. And you can see how many hundreds
thousands of people looking at our
stuff. You can see, you can throw it up
there and see how many thousands of
views I you know, oh 85,000 people
looked at my paper and yet did not make
one single change in the clinic as the
result of the information that I put out
there. Now, what's going on with that?
They're locked into the system. The
system prevents them. There's a lot of
very good physicians out there that
would love to change this, but they they
can't do it. The system will not allow
them to do it. So, you have to change
the system. How are you going to change
the system? Right? What's the way to
change the system? Educate the people.
They're the consumers. They're the ones
who have to go down and get the
treatments from the physicians at the
oncology centers. If they say, "I want
metabolic therapy." And the and the and
the say, "Well, we don't do that. Well,
I'll go somewhere where I can get it
done." Okay. So, so again the and also
you have people have to be in they have
to understand it's their soul it's their
it's their survival so it obviously
means a lot it should mean a lot to them
you think they would want to go out and
and learn much as much as possible about
this you know so because it's ultimately
it's their destiny that's under that's
under uh
under evaluation here so yeah there's a
lot of things but I keep you know we we
we we get a lot of good support from uh
from private foundations and
philanthropy. It keeps my lab going
strong. Uh so I can continue to publish
this publish these papers until I'm blue
in the face. Eventually somebody's going
to look and say, "Yeah, these guys were
right all the time. Why why didn't we
ever do that?"
And you say, "Yeah, well, we told you a
long time ago how how to manage this
cancer, but you guys didn't want to
didn't want to take it up." So, um but
that's okay. Uh we'll just keep pushing
forward.
though that reminds me everything you're
saying. It's it's really hard for
doctors sometimes even if they want to
do what what you're showing through
studies like for example the doctor that
gave my dad the new merc pill and fizer
just came out with have lavit I think
when you look at if you just have to
read the prescribing information the
insert that normally comes in the
packaging and you see that it's brand
new we don't know your short and
long-term side effects we don't even
know if if it's going to stop your COVID
start something else we have no idea but
we're just the doctors have to do
because these huge bodies like FDA, CDC,
WHO, NIH say this is what we're this is
what we're pushing now and if you just
open it and read it. I can't speak for
the drugs that are going to be used
against COVID. Um because I haven't
tested any of this and I know very
little about about that, but I mean we
certainly can know about the drugs for
cancer. Um there's a lot of information
on that. It's mostly incredible
toxicity. Um, but what your father is
taking to manage COVID, you know, I have
no knowledge about that drug at all and
um can't speak to it at all or know what
the adverse effects or the long-term
consequences are of that. But what's
interesting is when I ask my lung doctor
friends, two of them who specialize in
CO, I say, "How's CO today?" They say,
"Basically, nobody's dying." So why are
people taking this experimental
emergency use unapproved pill? Nobody's
dying today supposedly. I mean, I'm sure
some still are. That that's a different
question. you know, why are you giving
someone a drug that if if they don't
need it? Yeah. Uh but that's, you know,
uh neither here nor there. But but you
know, I I'm I focus mostly on the on the
the the cancer problem. So I think if we
can solve that problem, and I think we
can uh once the word uh once people
start understanding what the nature of
the disease is, um then I think we're
going to make big big breakthroughs. Um
so I've always looked at cancer as as a
it's very bright. If the future is if
once they change the the the what what
the view of what the nature of the
disease is and realize that it's a
metabolic disease then that the the
approach to managing it becomes wow you
can use a lot of different things that
won't harm the person to manage the
disease. So beautiful diet drug combos
um yeah you're not going to get rid of
it tomorrow but but by uh six or eight
10 months down the road you're you're
you're you're back with in in top health
again and you have this thing under
control. So um this is the future but um
Amalia I have no idea uh when that's
going to become standard of care when I
even wrote a paper you know for
glyobblasto metabolic the standard of
care metabolic therapy should be the
standard of care for glyopblasto but uh
and for all cancers as a matter of fact
but but um see if I can find that one
the met is that the metabolic management
of micro environment acidity and gly
that's the new one but you know it
covers the same stuff um that we just
published that a couple of it just
published a few weeks ago. Is it the one
ketogenic metabolic therapy? Because I
do have a question about that. Can you
tell us about foods? You know, there are
people that feel, you know, they're
going to get control of their stress or
god forbid preventing cancer, being
vegan. Some people now say, you know, I
want to be carnivore or ketogenic. Your
paper right here that I have up on the
screen says ketogenic metabolic therapy
without chemo radiation for the
long-term management of basically
glyobblastoma. So what what do you say
in general for dangerous cancers or
general cancers for food? Is it vegan?
Is it meat? Is it keto? Paleo? Well, we
use the glucose ketone index calculator
in which that patient Pablo Kelly uh
who's on the web telling everybody how
he survived eight years with a
glyopblasto.
Um but he he went into a carnivore. At
first he just did zero carbohydrate
dieting, some small amount of fasting.
Then he started to shift over more to a
carnivore uh kind of diet and uh he was
taking various kinds of small
supplements. But but the the bottom line
was that he uh learned to manage his
cancer. Uh he he never went he never
took um radiation or chemo uh which you
know knocks the hell out of your body.
And and as I said if you if the human
brain should rarely if ever be irdiated
what are you doing to these poor people?
So he chose not to do that. We can
manage cancer without erading the brain.
You know, once you shut off the blood
vessels and starve the tumor cells of
their glucose and glutamine, uh using
the glucose ketone index calculator,
which Pablo did. So every day he would
take a a prick of blood from his
fingertip and then look at measure the
glucose in his blood and measure the the
ketone body, the ketones in his blood,
and you get a nice ratio. And the closer
you could keep that ratio one to one,
the better you are in killing and
suppressing the growth of those tumor
cells. So he had a he had a handle. He
knew he knew. And then and then what he
did, he realized that oh my tumor is
really under control. Um you know I'm
I'm I was supposed to be dead like two
years ago and here I'm still alive. His
tumor was continuing to grow but at a
very very slow pace. So then he said,
"Okay, after three years, I'll have it
cut out." First it was an inoperable
brain cancer. And then all of a sudden
with three years of metabolic therapy,
it became an operable tumor. So the the
neurosurgeon says, "I can take this
out." So they went in and took it out.
And then he said, "Oh, now I can should
go back on my but never took it all out.
There was always some remaining." So and
then all of a sudden he started like
drifting off his uh rigid therapy and
then it started growing again. and put
the fear of God back into him. So, he
went back down into the glucose ketone
index calculator and learned to live
with it. Now, he's had a second
debulking. Uh, it grows so slow, you
know, glyopblasto grows so fast usually
kills you within a year or two. You
know, this guy's out eight years and he
the tumor it's like he's learned to live
with it. Every every three, four years
he has it a little piece of it taken out
and but he would have should have been
dead years ago. He has now two kids. Um,
and he's he's very happy with his life,
but he's a little under some restriction
here, but he knows what he needs to do.
You know, it's not like uh so and and a
lot of people are like this. They're
just managing their cancer. They're
learning to live with it. And um and
then sometimes with the right Doug drug
diet combo, you can knock it out
completely that you're considered cancer
free. But who knows, you know, all I
know is that the person is alive today
that should have been dead a long time
ago. Um, and that's all we know. So, we
can't say the guy's cured. We can't say
this. All we know is he's alive when he
when when 90% of the people with that
cancer are dead. So, um, or more, you
know. So, um, but but any event, yeah.
So, um, uh, there's ways to do this.
There's ways to to manage this. I know
you got to go soon, so just a few more
questions. You know, I had Dr. Danner,
do you want to get it real quick? We can
pause. You need to get the Um, that's
okay. I I'll pick it up later. We get so
many people emailing me for information.
Uh and I give them free free
information. Uh kits uh all the papers
uh they sit down with their family and
they discuss this information. At least
it gives them the knowledge of an
alternative approach and they can they
can do with it what they want. Um so it
every cancer patient should be uh fully
aware of the nature of their condition.
uh what should be done and and how to do
it and what are the options. I mean
that's all and if you have the knowledge
then you every family can make and the
patient can make their own choices as to
the strategy they would like to use to
manage their condition. How do people
get the kits? they email me and what I
do is and then there's a uh at the end
of the kit there's a if they want to
make a donation to one of the
foundations that supports our research
uh um they they're they're they can do
that. So, and I don't I don't even I
just say if you feel that the
information in this kit helps you um you
you might want to make a donation. Uh
but if it doesn't help them then it I
don't pressure anybody. I mean they they
if they feel that they've been helped um
they can they they can make a donation.
If not you know it's just up to them but
you know you know this is the um this is
the situation. So so anyway yeah so we
do a lot of this and and um you know I'm
publishing papers all but I also teach
all the classes here at Boston College.
We have a big big classes that I teach.
So it's a it's an active um active
participation in all these things since
the I think it seems like I know a lot I
do know three people that died of
glyobblastoma multifiform and there's
quite a few in my life over the years
that have lymphoma. So do you mind if I
ask a question from one of my friends
who's currently dealing with it? Yeah.
Okay. If you specifically have swollen
lymph nodes in the groin, what technique
can be used to reduce them even if they
are six centimeters wide? any techniques
besides because this is what she's been
doing. Besides eliminating processed
sugar and foods, reducing all natural
sugar and fruits, regular exercise,
yoga, 8 to 10 hours of sleep daily, one
half of your body weight in ounces,
prayer and positive thoughts. So, she's
saying other than all that stuff she's
doing, what what do you have to say to
people like that? She's doing that all
that stuff right now. Yeah. Okay. Then
she should measure her glucose ketone
index. And how do people do that? They
buy the you can go on on Amazon and get
the uh the me the keto mojo meter. Okay,
they have a couple of them there you can
buy. You know, Keto Mojo is one of them.
Um, and then that m you take the you
prick your finger like a diabetic would
and you get a drop of blood and uh and
then you can take the little ketone
stick or the glucose stick and you can
get your glucose blood sugar and you can
get your blood ketone value and then the
meter will immediately calculate your
glucose ketone index and you look at the
number and if the number is low like 2.0
zero or below, uh, then you're in this
state of therapeutic ketosis and then
then you at least you know you're there.
Then you can discuss that with your
oncologist or your physician and see
whether or not you can add on some some
some other minor drugs like perhaps a
parasite medication or some of these
other things and see whether or not the
lumps go down, the the the swollen gland
or lymph nodes uh go down. So a lot of
people with prostate cancer can do this
because they can get a diagnosis of
prostate cancer with a high PSA and then
they go like Guy Tanob then you go on
these metabolic approaches and it goes
down to almost zero. So what happened?
They were going to rip this guy's
prostate out and do all kinds of
mutilation stuff and it didn't need to
do it at all you know. So um so so any
event yeah so there's a lot of things
you can do. Um but that you have to have
the tools and the knowledge to do this
and uh so the glucose ke ketone index is
the way to uh at least know what your
what the metabolic state of your body
is.
I have about two more questions. One is
the sun does the sun cause cancer and
can you tell us about melanomas?
Well, you know, melanoma is a cancer of
the melanocy in in your skin and um you
know, I I mean, sun exposure can
certainly put you at risk, I think. Um
but uh uh sun is good for you as well.
So, um you know, I I can only say that
it's no different from any other cancer
and you need to target glucose and
glutamine to to keep it under control.
Okay. Um, okay. That's good to know. So,
it sounds like overall people do have
some control of of what's going on and
they don't necessarily have to just jump
right into all these therapies that
hospitals and doctors are offering. So,
I really like that. I'm trying to think
if there's anything else. I did have one
other question. Sometimes I see people,
they look so healthy and I don't I
haven't asked a doctor this before.
They'll have this belly that looked like
they swallowed like four basketballs and
they look so healthy. I can see them
exercising or I'm like, is this alcohol?
Is this inflammation? What? Why do some
people have this huge healthy body, but
then this huge belly? Well, I don't know
if you want to call it that. If the if
the body is that healthy, you won't have
that belly. True. They look thin, but
then they've got this hard looking
belly. What is it? Yeah. Well, that's,
you know, some of that could be
metabolic syndrome, which is definitely
not part of being healthy. Um but again,
you know, but I you can't if people do
exercise, that's one way to keep to stay
into a healthier healthier state. Get
their get their blood ketones up and
their glucose down. Water only fasting
does that. You can really get in.
Dominic de Austinino, expert on doing
all this kind of stuff. So, um yeah, he
does it all. He's always in ketosis. If
Dominic ever gets cancer, I'm going to
be really surprised. Yeah. You know, if
everybody go look up Dominic Di
Austinino, he's a very healthy guy. He's
always in ketosis, works out all the
time. Very fit fit guy. So, um doesn't
eat any uh pro highly processed
carbohydrates.
So, um you know, but but he's he's
healthy. I noticed he's on one of your
studies. Let's see which one was He's on
several of our papers. He's on our press
pulse paper and he's on Oh, press pulse.
Yeah, there he is. Dom Augustino. Okay.
Yeah. Dom Augustino. you know, he's a
very healthy guy. So, um, he does not
have, uh, his stomach does not look like
he swallowed basketballs.
So, I think my last question has to do
with inflammation. Someone asked about,
if you know Dr. Terry Walls and the
Walls protocol because she did a TED
talk maybe 10, 11 years ago that she had
multiple scerosis and I believe her
basic story is she was vegan, very
plant-based, very healthy, but somehow
she discovered on her own she eats liver
once a week, no more than 6 to8 ounces.
She eats grass-fed beef every day and
certain particular specific
carbohydrates, which I don't know. What
do you think of just general information
for multiple scerosis or even bipolar
schizophrenia? Just I think my question
is just about general information, you
know, protocol. Yeah. Well, I can't
speak to that um bipolar disease or any
of these kinds of things. Uh there are
reports in the scientific literature
that diet and lifestyle issues can
impact either positively or negatively
on these particular conditions. So um
but again they're they involve some
level of inflammation and uh the
metabolic approach reduces inflammation
but I can't say that a metabolic
approach that we use for cancer would
have an impact on on bipolar disease or
multiple sclerosis.
Okay. It seems like a similar story
that's why I asked that these people are
typically going keto when they have
those issues. I just want to say a
little bit more about the professor
doctor before we go because his
background is so amazing. Like I said he
was even served in Vietnam. He was a
post-doal fellow in the department of
neurology at the Yale University School
of Medicine and then served on the
faculty as assistant professor of
neurology. Other awards and honors have
come from such diverse organizations as
the American oil chemist society, the
National Institute of Health, the
American Society of Neurochemistry and
the Ketogenic Diet Special Interest
Group of the American Epilepsy Society.
Dr. Seaff previously served as chair
scientific advisory committee for the
National TESAC and Allied Disease
Association. He's received lifetime
achievement awards from the Academy of
Complimentary Integrative Medicine, the
Internal Dose Response Society, the
uncompromising science award from the
American College of Nutrition for his
work on cancer. He presently serves on
several editorial boards including those
for nutrition and metab metabolism,
neurochemical research, the journal of
lipid research, ASN neuro, where he is a
senior editor. Dr. Seaff Freed has over
200 peer-reviewed publication is the
author of the book cancer as a metabolic
disease on the origin management and
prevention of cancer. WY press by the
way you'll see the book is kind of high
price for a book but that's why it has
so much information and it's the very
classic WY press that's why his book was
recently translated into Chinese and is
now under contract for translation in
Turkish and his full list of
peer-reviewed publications can be found
on PubMed. So, I just had to say that
because just you just need to know he
has done so much and so accomplished.
Anything else you want to teach us
before we go? No, I think I think I've
covered I I'd be happy to answer any,
you know, questions that people may have
because a lot of this stuff is just so
new and uh when people hear it for the
first time, they're they're like really
overwhelmed
uh and sometimes just are amazed that
all of this could be there and they
didn't never heard of it. and uh they
get dis dis uh franchised when they go
and ask their oncologist, you know,
about this. They get very frustrated and
they say, "No, everything that I'm
saying uh none of this exists and it's
not been proven or evaluated." And then
the poor patient doesn't know what to
think. And um it's very frustrating
because uh they should know about it and
they should have an understanding at
least best they can. So, I try to
publish as much of this in open access
journals as I've already indicated that
at least gives them a chance to to to
read it. Um, and I think that's the best
we can do at this time until the system
changes. Um, and it will change. It's
just I just don't know when that's going
to happen because the current system is
not working.
Yeah. And it's interesting you you said
the acronym of quite a few times
standard of care today for cancer. It's
the acronym sock. So sometimes maybe we
need to stick a sock in it because
they're doing the same thing over and
over when they just need to try
something else. I never heard it that
way, but I guess it could be read
professor's book and read his articles
and then we'll have more answers and you
can maybe these people can pull the sock
out of their mouth and we can learn a
lot more.
Good plan. Yeah. Thank God you're you're
you're able to speak freely and and not
not every doctor can do that. So I don't
treat patients. You got to remember I'm
not a physician. I can't treat patient.
I can't tell anybody what to do or what
not to do. All I can do is give them the
information and then they would discuss
it with their with their physicians.
Well, we appreciate you.